imagine downloading movies on your phone
in a matter of seconds or being operated
on by a robot remotely controlled from
the other end of the world this is not
science fiction it's actually part of
the very near future 5g is going to
change the way we use wireless tech and
probably our whole lives so what is 5g
exactly well it's the next generation of
cellular technology
it all started with you guessed it 1g
the first-ever cellular network if you
remember cellphones with antennas well
they used 1g the biggest break came with
the arrival of 3G when we started
browsing the internet freely on our
smart phones but that was just a step in
the tech progress today
most developed countries use the fourth
generation or 4G on their mobile devices
if you use this technology you probably
already know that you can download
pretty large files on your smartphone or
tablet stream videos and music make
video calls and much more however 4G is
basically limited to mobile gadgets
while 5g is on an entirely new level of
course it will affect the mobile devices
first the peak download speed is going
to be about 10 gigabits per second
that's 10 times the top down stream
speed of 4G and while in reality such
speeds aren't likely to be achieved 5g
is still going to be significantly
faster here's a simple example with 4G
you can download an 8 gigabyte movie in
HD quality in about 7-8 minutes right
well 5g will allow you to do so in just
6 seconds I wonder how long it would
take for the whole Star Trek anthology
to download but like I said higher speed
is just one of the numerous benefits 5g
has to offer another one is something
called latency latency is the amount of
time it takes to send data from one
device to another
with 4G this amount is somewhere around
50 milliseconds or five hundredths of a
second it's faster than the blink of an
eye yet for electronics and technology
even such speed might not be an
take automated cars for example with a
latency of 50 milliseconds a
self-driving car will only receive the
signal that there's an obstacle in front
of it after a short delay this might
cost the safety or even the lives of
those inside the car because every
single moment counts in an emergency
situation with 5g though the latency
rate will be reduced to a mere one
millisecond or simply put one thousandth
of a second I can't even give you a good
comparison for that the signal is
delivered pretty much instantly which
makes the reaction of any device a whole
lot faster that means the self-driving
cars I mentioned earlier will be able to
avoid almost any trouble on the road
making them much safer to use another
example of the advantage of 5g is the
ability of real-time communication yeah
I know what you're thinking we already
have that don't we well not exactly you
see with the latency and data connection
speed of the 4G connection you're only
capable of achieving so much the more
the network is loaded the higher the
latency so in a really busy network with
lots of connected devices it can reach
unacceptable values how do you like the
cursor on your screen reacting to the
movements of your mouse after just half
a second yeah just the thought of it
makes me grind my teeth give me a like
if you get what I mean
anyway 5g will solve this issue all
together
with a one millisecond base latency in
ten times the speed of data exchange
it will allow lots of devices to be
connected in a single network without
any delay in reaction in fact there has
already been a demonstration of how 5g
works in real time if you're a fan of
sports you couldn't have missed it in
2018 the Olympic Games were held in
Pyeongchang
South Korea and they showed the world
what a powerful technology 5g really is
action cameras were attached to bobsleds
and viewers from all over the planet
could watch them speed down the slope
like they were there in person video
producers said that only 5g was capable
of real-time streaming of such high
quality No More Theory guys this is real
did you watch those bobsleds if you did
share your impressions down in the
comments while we're on the topic of
instant communication by the way 5g is
going to
Ellucian eyes one of the most important
spears of our life medicine professor
Pro card s Gupta from King's College
London says that the new generation of
mobile networking will allow for cheaper
and more efficient use of robots in
surgery for example today's robots can
only be manipulated from a nearby
location that is from an adjacent room
5g will make it possible for surgeons to
operate on patients from almost anywhere
in the world this will save both time
and money spent on travels for
specialists and patients alike what's
more real-time monitoring via wearable
devices will allow patients to stay safe
in the comfort of their own homes and
even that's not all probably know what
the Internet of Things or IOT is right
in case you didn't it's all that smart
stuff that you have in your home kettles
washing machines lamps sound systems you
name it everything that can be
controlled via your smartphone is
connected to the Internet of Things
currently 4G and Wi-Fi networks are
enough to control smart homes but that's
only because the IOT won't be developed
to its full potential for about 10 more
years according to the 2017 Ericsson
mobility report the current networking
standard already limits the efficiency
of the IOT remember what I told you
about latency when there are many smart
devices connected in a single
environment let's say a fully equipped
home the amount of time to process all
the data between them becomes longer and
longer and now imagine that it's not a
single home but a huge business equipped
with hundreds of IOT devices naturally
the latency is going to be sky-high
there of course that's unacceptable so
the current powers of the IOT are
limited and that's another problem that
5g is going to solve with it's almost a
zero latency in high data speeds it will
allow the connection of as many IOT
devices as you want and with the growing
demand for this kind of gadget the new
generation of networking will definitely
come in handy hey how about moving your
house with a flick of your finger and I
mean literally moving your house so 5g
is an amazing technology that's for sure
but when should we expect it to unroll
world
well that's a tricky question you see
many regions of the world don't even
have a chance to enjoy the convenience
of 4G yet but even the most developed
countries like the US Japan and South
Korea agree that the new generation of
mobile networks won't be widely spread
until several years from now experts
from bi intelligence say that by 2022 5g
will reach about 15% of the world's
population that's not too long I agree
but what about the rest of humanity um
hello
85 percent is kind of a big deal well it
seems they'll have to wait longer sorry
guys just a couple of years please be
patient anyway tell me bright ciders
what do you personally expect from the
5g networks sound off in the comments
below don't forget to give this video a
like share the word with your friends
and click the subscribe button to always
stay on the bright side of life